---
layout: post
lang: en
title:  "'BitShares 101' Book Released"
author: "Daniel Larimer"
categories: 
    - article
---

Max Wright has just published the first e-book about BitShares: ["BitShares 101"](http://www.amazon.com/BitShares-101-Generation-Currencies-Decentralized-ebook/dp/B00QUIWHR0/).  For a long time 
the BitShares community has needed a introductory guide for the average man. Max
has done an amazing job taking a complex subject and condensing it down into 
something easily understood.  His writing style is very conversational and easy
to follow.

In this ~59 page book you will find clear explanations of things such as
Decentralized Autonomous Companies (DACs).  An overview of [BitShares](/update/2014/12/18/What-is-BitShares.html) and
[BitAssets](/article/2014/12/18/What-are-BitShares-Market-Pegged-Assets.html) is provided
that takes a slightly different approach at describing BitShares than I did in
my post on ["What is BitShares?"](/update/2014/12/18/What-is-BitShares.html).  In his
approach he describes BitShares using the company metaphor.  This is perhaps
the most useful approach to understanding BitShares from the perspective of an
investor. 

If you want to understand the value proposition of BitShares this is the book for you. If
want to understand the philosophy of BitShares then my blog is the place for you.

It is currently available for $0.99 on Amazon Kindle.  Max is selling the book for
the sole purpose of getting free advertising on the Amazon best sellers list for 
various categories.   Even if you already know everything there is to know about
BitShares I highly recommend you buy the book as a way of supporting our community and
providing Max with a tip for the excellent work has produced.


## BitShares.TV

For those of you who don't know, Max has also launched a video at [BitShares.TV](http://bitshares.tv) covering 
BitShares related topics.  His video blog is the analog of my written blog. 

<center>
<iframe width="620" height="349" src="//www.youtube.com/embed/XxTtW44R_bQ" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>
</center>

